---
layout: post
title: FBCTF Write-up misc/evil_896 (+ scapy intro)
---
This is gonna be my first Write-up since my journey in InfoSec started. I want to lead you all a little bit throughout my process of thought and my approach on breaking this chall. Since I work in something like "Network Security" this was not the hardest chall for me but a good learning opportunity on using scapy for something. Which was on my personal pile-of-shame for quiet a long time. If you like this kind of write-up, pls let me know on Twitter or something - @DennisDeLarge . 

We were presented with a small but helpful introduction.

> I'm trying to break into the EVIL club and I've figured out their password. I still can't get in though because they now have a new secret evil handshake. I've attached what I captured from the old handshake, maybe it will help.
> 
> nc 35.155.188.29 8000
> 
> (Note: be careful trying this problem in a "non-standard" networking setup).

There are a few takeaway's here. We will come back later on but it clearly states the use of a "new secret evil handshake" and in particular the Note further down is pointing to your network setup. Cause I never heard of the following, this didn't pull the magic trigger in my brain. But still, a few good hint's on where to look for stuff.

As always, let's see what happens if we connect to the chall.
```bash
nc 35.155.188.29 8000
Clearly you're not evil enough.
```
Okay, there is no way to really interact with the chall on the first attempt. It just let's you know - you are not even trying to be evil. Obviously the chall needs to start with the first few packets sent out to the service. Sounds like packet manipulation huh? Kinda.

So - on to what else we have.
There is a .pcap supplied with the chall. Let's fire up a wireshark and see what we can extract from it.
The .pcap itself is stripped down to what we really need which makes it easy to read - no distractions here. The .pcap starts with the initial 3-Way-Handshake.

/TO BE CONTINUED/

This is my really dirty and debuggery script to solve this chall.
```python
#!/usr/bin/python2
from scapy.all import *


# Setup some variables
src = "10.18.41.50"
dst = "35.155.188.29"
sport = random.randint(1024,65535)
dport = int("8000")

# lets start by sniffing the first 3 packets from the pcap and print it's metadate as best as possible

# packets = sniff(offline='evil.pcap')

#packets[0].show()
#packets[1].show()
#packets[2].show()

# build the initial 3-way-handshake
# SYN
ip=IP(src=src,dst=dst,flags=4,frag=0)
SYN=TCP(sport=sport,dport=dport,flags='S',seq=1000)
SYNACK=sr1(ip/SYN)
#SYNACK.show()
# ACK
ACK=TCP(sport=sport, dport=dport, flags='A', seq=SYNACK.ack, ack=SYNACK.seq + 1)
INITACK=sr1(ip/ACK)


# examine the secret handshake of the evilclub
# PUSHACK.show()
# Ref: The word of the day is VARIABLE.
secretlines = INITACK.load.splitlines()
secret = str(secretlines[2].split()[6:])[2:-3].title()
print secretlines[2]
print secret

# build correct response
# Ref: Every Villain Is VARIABLE
data = 'Every Villain Is '
data += secret
data += '\n'
print data
PUSHACK=TCP(sport=sport, dport=dport, flags='PA', seq=INITACK.ack, ack=INITACK.seq + 1)
RESPONSE=sr1(ip/PUSHACK/Raw(load=data))
RESPONSE.show()

# hopefully get the flag
```
